--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UrlyBird user guide
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Overview

1.1. Requirements
The UrlyBird Reservation System only require Java(TM) 2 Runtime Environment, 
Standard Edition, Version 1.6.0 to be installed on your system. The System is 
supported and tested under the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) for Windows.

1.2. Network and Standalone version
UrlyBird can be used either as local standalone client or as client-server 
version. For the standalone client the database must be chosen by the user that 
starts UrlyBird. The client-server version needs two instances of UrlyBird 
running. One instance must be the server that needs the database file, and the 
other instance must be the network client, that connects to the server. Client 
and server must not necessarily run on the same machine - they only must be 
connected to the same network.

1.3. Starting the program
UrlyBird is a Java program. The program is included in the Java archive file 
"runme.jar". To start the program a Java runtime is needed. In command line you 
have to enter text as follows: 

java -jar runme.jar <mode>

"mode" is an optional parameter. Possible paramaters are "alone" and 
"server". The parameter "alone" starts the standalone client version of 
UrlyBird. With "server" the server version will start. If no parameter is 
given, the network client will start.   

2. Server

2.1. Server startup
The server is only used to run UrlyBird in network mode. The window that appears 
at startup has two options to set. The first option named "Database location" is 
the absolute path of the database file. For easy search of the database file you 
can click on "Browse" to browse the local system to search for the file to use. 
The second option named "Local server port" is the port number the server should 
use. The server port must be numeric and between 0 and 65535. Both options are 
required. To start the server click on "Start". If the startup was successful 
the "Start" button will be disabled and the "Stop" button will be enabled. To 
stop the running server click on "Stop". 

3. Client

3.1. Standalone client startup
The standalone client is used to run UrlyBird in local mode. No network and no 
server instance is necessary. The window that appears at startup has only one 
option to set. This option named "Database location" is the absolute path of the 
database file. This option is required. For easy search of the database file you 
can click on "Browse" to browse the local system to search for the file to use. 
After choosing the database file you have to click on "Connect" to connect to 
this database. 

3.2. Network client startup
The network client is used to run UrlyBird in network mode. It is necessary that 
a server instance is running somewhere in the network. The window that appears 
at startup has two options to set. The first option named "Server hostname or 
IP" is the server location. You can fill in either the hostname like 
"somewhere.net" or an IP address like "10.0.0.1". The secord option is the 
server's port number. Both options are required. To connect to the server click 
on "Connect".  

3.3. Client
Both, standalone and network client have a second window that appears after the 
connection to the database established. This window is the business user 
interface. In this window you can perform searches in the database or book hotel 
rooms.
The search form has two combo boxes. One of them holds all possible names of the 
hotels, the other one holds all possible locations of the hotels in the 
database. There special entries called "- all -". With this selection you can 
search for all names and/or all locations that are possible.
Once you have found the hotel room you searched for you can perform a booking 
for the customer. To do this, you need to type the customer ID into the 
textfield that is provided for this ID. Now you have to select the hotel room 
inside the table. After selecting the room you need to click on the "Book 
selected record" button. The customers ID is filled into the owner field of the 
hotel room in the table and marks the room as "booked up". Once you have booked 
a record for a customer the record is in a final state. There is no possibility 
to sell this hotel room to another customer.

4. Common

4.1. Configuration
All inputs, like hostname or file locations are stored persistently to a file in 
the application path when the application is shut down. This ensures that you do 
not have to enter the same things if you start UrlyBird another time.
